The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Magic Pudding

This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The Magic Pudding


Author: Norman Lindsay

Release date: November 26, 2007 [eBook #23625]

Language: English

Credits: Produced by Suzanne Shell, Janet Blenkinship and the Online
        Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MAGIC PUDDING ***



Produced by Suzanne Shell, Janet Blenkinship and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net











  _The_
  MAGIC PUDDING

  _Written and Illustrated by_
  NORMAN LINDSAY


  [Illustration]


  DOVER PUBLICATIONS, INC.
  Mineola, New York

_Bibliographical Note_

This Dover edition, first published in 2006, is an unabridged
republication of the work published by Angus and Robertson, Ltd.,
Sydney, Australia, in 1918.

_International Standard Book Number: 0-486-45281-6_

  Manufactured in the United States of America
  Dover Publications, Inc., 31 East 2nd Street, Mineola, N.Y. 11501


       *       *       *       *       *


First Slice


[Illustration]

This is a frontways view of Bunyip Bluegum and his Uncle Wattleberry. At
a glance you can see what a fine, round, splendid fellow Bunyip Bluegum
is, without me telling you. At a second glance you can see that the
Uncle is more square than round, and that his face has whiskers on it.

[Illustration]

Looked at sideways you can still see what a splendid fellow Bunyip is,
though you can only see one of his Uncle's whiskers.

[Illustration]

Observed from behind, however, you completely lose sight of the
whiskers, and so fail to realize how immensely important they are. In
fact, these very whiskers were the chief cause of Bunyip's leaving home
to see the world, for, as he often said to himself--

  'Whiskers alone are bad enough
  Attached to faces coarse and rough;
  But how much greater their offence is
  When stuck on Uncles' countenances.'

[Illustration]

The plain truth was that Bunyip and his Uncle lived in a small house in
a tree, and there was no room for the whiskers. What was worse, the
whiskers were red, and they blew about in the wind, and Uncle
Wattleberry would insist on bringing them to the dinner table with him,
where they got in the soup.

Bunyip Bluegum was a tidy bear, and he objected to whisker soup, so he
was forced to eat his meals outside, which was awkward, and besides,
lizards came and borrowed his soup.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

His Uncle refused to listen to reason on the subject of his whiskers. It
was quite useless giving him hints, such as presents of razors, and
scissors, and boxes of matches to burn them off. On such occasions he
would remark--

  'Shaving may add an air that's somewhat brisker,
  For dignity, commend me to the whisker.'

Or, when more deeply moved, he would exclaim--

  'As noble thoughts the inward being grace,
  So noble whiskers dignify the face.'

Prayers and entreaties to remove the whiskers being of no avail, Bunyip
decided to leave home without more ado.

The trouble was that he couldn't make up his mind whether to be a
Traveller or a Swagman. You can't go about the world being nothing, but
if you are a traveller you have to carry a bag, while if you are a
swagman you have to carry a swag, and the question is: Which is the
heavier?

[Illustration]

At length he decided to put the matter before Egbert Rumpus Bumpus, the
poet, and ask his advice. He found Egbert busy writing poems on a slate.
He was so busy that he only had time to sing out--

  'Don't interrupt the poet, friend,
  Until his poem's at an end.'

and went on writing harder than ever. He wrote all down one side of the
slate and all up the other, and then remarked--

  'As there's no time to finish that,
  The time has come to have our chat.
  Be quick, my friend, your business state,
  Before I take another slate.'

[Illustration]

'The fact is,' said the Bunyip, 'I have decided to see the world, and I
cannot make up my mind whether to be a Traveller or a Swagman. Which
would you advise?'

Then said the Poet--

  'As you've no bags it's plain to see
  A traveller you cannot be;
  And as a swag you haven't either
  You cannot be a swagman neither.
  For travellers must carry bags,
  And swagmen have to hump their swags
    Like bottle-ohs or ragmen.
  As you have neither swag nor bag
  You must remain a simple wag,
    And not a swag- or bagman.'

[Illustration]

'Dear me,' said Bunyip Bluegum, 'I never thought of that. What must I do
in order to see the world without carrying swags or bags?'

The Poet thought deeply, put on his eyeglass, and said impressively--

  'Take my advice, don't carry bags,
  For bags are just as bad as swags;
    They're never made to measure.
  To see the world, your simple trick
  Is but to take a walking-stick--
    Assume an air of pleasure,
  And tell the people near and far
  You stroll about because you are
    A Gentleman of Leisure.'

[Illustration]

'You have solved the problem,' said Bunyip Bluegum, and, wringing his
friend's hand, he ran straight home, took his Uncle's walking-stick, and
assuming an air of pleasure, set off to see the world.

He found a great many things to see, such as dandelions, and ants, and
traction engines, and bolting horses, and furniture being removed,
besides being kept busy raising his hat, and passing the time of day
with people on the road, for he was a very well-bred young fellow,
polite in his manners, graceful in his attitudes, and able to converse
on a great variety of subjects, having read all the best Australian
poets.

Unfortunately, in the hurry of leaving home, he had forgotten to
provide himself with food, and at lunch time found himself attacked by
the pangs of hunger.

'Dear me,' he said, 'I feel quite faint. I had no idea that one's
stomach was so important. I have everything I require, except food; but
without food everything is rather less than nothing.

  'I've got a stick to walk with.
  I've got a mind to think with.
  I've got a voice to talk with.
  I've got an eye to wink with.
  I've lots of teeth to eat with,
  A brand new hat to bow with,
  A pair of fists to beat with,
  A rage to have a row with.
  No joy it brings
    To have indeed
  A lot of things
    One does not need.
  Observe my doleful plight.
    For here am I without a crumb
    To satisfy a raging tum--
  O what an oversight!'

As he was indulging in these melancholy reflexions he came round a bend
in the road, and discovered two people in the very act of having lunch.
These people were none other than Bill Barnacle, the sailor, and his
friend, Sam Sawnoff, the penguin bold.

Bill was a small man with a large hat, a beard half as large as his hat,
and feet half as large as his beard. Sam Sawnoff's feet were sitting
down and his body was standing up, because his feet were so short and
his body so long that he had to do both together. They had a pudding in
a basin, and the smell that arose from it was so delightful that Bunyip
Bluegum was quite unable to pass on.

[Illustration]

'Excuse me,' he said, raising his hat, 'but am I right in supposing that
this is a steak-and-kidney pudding?'

'At present it is,' said Bill Barnacle.

'It smells delightful,' said Bunyip Bluegum.

'It is delig5125